{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15380\viewh13340\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f1\b What is MacPorts?
\f0\b0 \
\
MacPorts provides an infrastructure for building, installing, and packaging open source software.  It is designed to match the functionality of the FreeBSD Ports system and to be extensible for future enhancements.\
\

\f1\b \
System Requirements:
\f0\b0 \
\
This disk image is built for Mac OS X __XVERS__.x and requires valid TCL, curl and OpenSSL installations to function - all present by default on Mac OS X. Also required is the installation of Apple's XCode programing suite, available as a separate installation from your OS X CDs or DVD, or preferably the latest version from Apple's Developer site: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/"}}{\fldrslt http://developer.apple.com/}}.\
\
\

\f1\b Install Location:\

\f0\b0 \
This installer places a ready to use  copy of MacPorts into its default location, /opt/local. If you wish to install onto a path other than this, you must resort to MacPorts' source code, configuring to your particular needs. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://trac.macosforge.org/projects/macports/wiki/InstallingMacPorts"}}{\fldrslt Installing MacPorts}} on the MacPorts Wiki for instructions on installation alternatives.\

\f1\b \
\
What is Installed:\

\f0\b0 \
Aside from a few MacPorts executable commands in /opt/local/bin, most MacPorts files are installed in /opt/local/var/db/dports. Within these directories you will find a "sources" directory containing the Portfiles that hold the necessary instructions to install ports and the MacPorts sources themselves. Both are kept up to date through the 
\f2\i sync
\f0\i0  and 
\f2\i selfupdate
\f0\i0  targets of the 
\f2\i port
\f0\i0  command, respectively. Please read the port(1) man page for more information.\

\f1\b \
\
Shell Environment:
\f0\b0 \
\
A file named ~/.profile is created for the use of the "bash" shell (default on Mac OS X 10.3 and newer) during the binary file install of MacPorts. It contains the necessary statements to append MacPorts' binary paths within /opt/local/ to your environment, so MacPorts will be available to you for subsequent terminal sessions. You may have to quit and restart your terminal application for this change to take effect.\
\

\f1\b \
Basic Usage:\

\f0\b0 \
The main user interface to MacPorts is the 
\f2\i port
\f0\i0  command and the various facilities it provides for installing ports. The first thing you should do after you install MacPorts is to make sure it is fully up to date by pulling the latest revisions to the Portfiles and any newer MacPorts point release that might be available from our rsync servers, all accomplished simply by running the "selfupdate" target of the 
\f2\i port 
\f0\i0 command as the Unix superuser:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	
\f2\i sudo port selfupdate 
\f0\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
Running this command on a regular basis is a good idea, as it'll ensure your MacPorts installation is always up to date. Following that, you may wish to search for a specific software package:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
	
\f2\i port search <portname>
\f0\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 where 
\f2\i <portname>
\f0\i0  is the name of the package you are searching for or that you wish to install. You may use partial names for searching, MacPorts will return the best matches to your query within our ports tree. To finally install a port you've chosen, you need to run the corresponding "install" target of 
\f2\i port
\f0\i0   as the superuser:\
\
	
\f2\i sudo port install <portname> 
\f0\i0 \
\
where in this case 
\f2\i <portname>
\f0\i0  maps to an exact port name that we carry in our ports tree, such as those returned by the "search" target
\f2\i . 
\f0\i0 Please consult the port(1) man page for complete documentation of this command and the software installation process.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 \
\
Documentation:\

\f0\b0 \
The MacPorts Wiki is available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://trac.macosforge.org/projects/macports/wiki/"}}{\fldrslt http://trac.macports.org/projects/macports/}} and should be consulted for further documentation and support. Also provided are man pages for 
\f2\i port
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\i ports.conf
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\i portfile
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\i portgroup
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\i portstyle
\f0\i0 , and 
\f2\i porthier
\f0\i0 . These can be invoked by typing: "man" followed by the name of the command or file (e.g. "man port" or "man ports.conf").\
\
\

\f1\b Creating New Ports:\
\

\f0\b0 If you are interested in developing your own ports for private usage, or would like to submit your ports for inclusion within the MacPorts software repository, please consult the documentation provided on our website. The MacPorts project depends on a community of active participants and we are always open to welcoming new volunteers and their contributions!\

\f1\b \

\f0\b0 \
Thank you for your interest in MacPorts!\
}